The Joe Rogan experience. Yes. Also since then,
you've had a bunch of surgeries and 13 so far. And what,
what started that off?
Well, I kind of hurt my back in high school when I was power lifting.
And then I heard it again in college when I was playing football and my back
end neck, uh, the chiropractor for a long time.
And then one day in the gym, I heard it like at 96,
I kinda herniated a disc. And, uh,
I guess it just got worse over, over time.
When you herniated that disc, what did you do to treat it?
Nothing. Uh, nothing I'm with the chiropractor. Chiropractor. Yeah.
I've been doing chiropractic all my life. Yeah. So I didn't, you know,
I didn't have surgery or nothing like, like that. When I herniated that this,
they, they offered me to have surgery. I told Noah.
So the surgery they wanted to do was probably trim the disc down.
Cause it was pushing against the nerve. Yeah.
Yeah. Laminectomy, whatever they call it.
And um, so 13 of those, huh?
38.
Back, uh, like two or three hip, 2, 3, 2, 2, 3 neck.
And did this all like happen all at once where it's like, it feels,
it felt like everything was falling apart or was it like you get a surgery and
then you better for a little while and then you hurt something else?
Uh, yeah, something like that. Yeah, because the first one was back,
the second one was back and then I think the third one was neck.
And then, uh, back, back and hip back,
back, back.
And now what, what did you get done to your hips to get your hips replaced?
Yeah. Yeah. Both of them. And like, what were they when you was at 14?
I think, yeah. 14. And how were those now?
I just had a hip surgery in January.
Uh it's it's it's holding up a little bit better now. Uh, one,
one kind of went bad. Uh soccer's broke
and they had to replace both of them. And uh, they.
Say they only last a certain amount of years, right? Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Every night I had the titanium ones and the titanium,
the other hardest ones.
Cause they roughing and they titanium and they kind of hold onto the body.
Oh yeah. Because of that and you know,
and to me working out and all this kind of stuff and it kinda just broke the
sockets.
Well, I follow you on Instagram and I watch your workouts and it's,
it's inspiring that after all this, you still love working out. Yeah.
You can really tell. I mean, you and Joe.
Still a hobby. I look forward to it every day.
Does it give you any pause at all,
knowing that you've been through all these surgeries and.
Nah, no. You know, when you're doing something you truly love and Jordan doing,
that's what you look forward to doing all the time. So really, regardless of,
you know, how you feel,
know of course I'm still in pain and all that kind of stuff,
but are you in pain all the time? Yeah.
But as long as I'm doing what I love doing, I'm okay.
You take that away then I probably won't be. Okay.
But so just even sitting here right now, you're in pain, uh, just.
A minimum amount. It's nothing major, you know,
if you're an athlete, you didn't paint all your life. Yeah. I mean,
I can remember in high school and college, you know,
I was in pain some days all the time. All the time. Yeah.
So after a while you kind of get used to it and doesn't really bother you.
Okay. That's why, you know, I'm,
I'm imagining that you have a spectacular tolerance for.
Pain. Yeah. I have a hard time. I remember when I herniated my disc,
I finished my workout.
I was squatting 600. I remember like it was yesterday.
I was coming up on rep number eight and all of a sudden PI it was a
loud gunshot sound. I do 600 for like 12,
13 reps all the time.
This time I had took a couple of weeks off and I thought I was still in the
strongest. I was, you know, when I took the time off, but I wasn't,
I lost a little strength and that's why that disc snapped on me like that.
I heard it and I felt it. But you know,
the athlete in youth, like, you know, let's go on finish, let's finish this up.
So I finished up, you know, I did that leg press and some other exercises.
And every time after I finished working
out doing legs, I always had a, uh,
a real bad pain in my back every single time.
But it would always go away and like an hour
this day, it didn't. And I was, I just went home, ate,
put on my uniform, was headed to work and I'm like, wait a minute.
My back is still hurting. This is two hours, almost 12 hours later.
Something's wrong. I ain't going to work today. I'm going to emergency room.
So yeah, it was that bad. Yeah.
And so he went to the emergency room. They probably like,
what the are you doing the size of this guy?
Yeah. Like we all see nothing wrong with your back. Yeah.
They probably couldn't get to it.
Well, they.
Did an x-ray and they like, we don't see anything.
So that's what I had in MRI.
And a couple of days later and found out it was herniated.
So I stayed at home for a couple of weeks and uh,
sat on the couch and didn't do anything. And two weeks later I went back,
the gym first exercise was squats. Oh my God.
Did it hurt again? No, no, no, no. I'll get ready for a show. So it was okay.
Yeah, it was okay. Two weeks after you herniated your disc,
you're doing squats again.
I don't, I only did 300 only 300. Yeah.
That's the most I could do for 10 reps, you know? Wow. 10 to 12 reps.
So I'm like, okay, this is good enough. You know,
but you knew that something was wrong. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
I couldn't do 600 no more. You know?
So, so after that, how long before you got your first surgery?
10 years later. 10 years. 10 years. So it was just intolerable pain,
like what was going on?
I couldn't,
I couldn't walk like no more than like 25 feet without my,
my leg being on fire on my feet being on fire.
And now I am a LA a whole lot of pain. Wow.
So I knew it's time to get some
serious done here now.
So what was the first, did they fuse it?
Lemonade lemon next to me when they shaved it off. Okay.
So that was the first one. Yeah. And I was, I was good for awhile, you know,
I went back to squatting and everything. And while you're still Mr. Olympia?
No, you know, I had retired. That was, I retired in oh seven.
So I had my first surgery in oh seven.
Okay. So this is after you're retired. You're not doing too bad.
Just in a little bit of pain. Yeah. So how does it all go down hill from there?
Yeah.
I don't, I think maybe the, you know,
the second one about a year or so later I started having problems again,
being in pain, again, same area, same area.
So it was like heavy, still? Yeah. 600 pounds.
And still that kind of stuff. No, because I wasn't competing.
So I was probably doing about four or 500 somewhere in there, but then,
you know, it's still kind of heavy and uh, I,
I don't ha I didn't have the weight that I used to have either, you know,
I wasn't 300 and something pounds no more.
So it was a little bit more difficult.
So it just kind of went bad on me again.
And I had to have another surgery.
Same kind of surgery. They trim more off of it.
Actually. They did what you call, like, uh,
I forgot actually what they did.
It's been so long ago that was back in like 2008, 2009,
somewhere in there, they kind of like did a reef refresh it. Like they,
I think they did trim a little bit more off it though. But, uh,
you know, it was all pretty much kind of like down here from there.
And so after that injury and that surgery, then how, how does he,
how do you round up with the other 11 surgeries?
Well,
I think like the first time you herniated disc,
it's like you can stack a bunch of cans on top of each other and you snap one
out. Well,
after a while the other one's going to start falling out of place too.
And that's kind of what happened, you know,
the other day started to just herniating on their own.
Of course I was working out too. And, uh, I still have one.
Now you got a herniated disc now. Yeah. Well.
How many discs have you had operated on all of them? All of them.
Every single desk, everything.
So this one that you ever herniated disc on now,
if you already had it operated on before?
No. This will be the first time for this. This is the last one. Yeah. Wow.
And so what did they do with your bag?
They basically fuse everything together now. Yeah. So the whole spine.
Is fused. Yeah. Wow. Neck and back.
How much mobility do you have? I mean, I can still, you know,
bend over and Thomas shoe and do all that kind of stuff.
But your back is one solid piece. Yeah.
So there's no like articulation of your discs in your spine.
And spinal column? Nothing. Wow. What does that feel like?
Uh, I mean, I guess it just feels kind of normal after a while, you know,
you get used to it. Yeah. It happens over time.
So it's like a gradual thing. So it's, it's not all of a sudden,
so it was just like one day, you know, you know, I,
I used to be able to just bend over and do all these stretches,
these crazy stretches. Well, I can't do all that no more. Yeah.
I can just bend over a little bit, you know, do a minor stretch. Yeah.
The doctors. Are they confident that this is the last one?
I mean, you've got them all fused.
Yeah. It's always something though. You know,
when you are an athlete and you always working out and always in the gym is
gonna always be something. You just accept that. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
You're used to it after awhile.
A lot of people,
that's a hard thing to accept this idea that he's just going to keep smashing
your body.
Yeah, exactly. I've got used to it now. It's been so busy having to say like,
oh, seven, 13 years now. Wow. Hmm.
Now, um, are you in this wheelchair all the time? No. No.
I, I don't have crutches. It's just that, uh, I left them at home.
I can walk, uh, maybe about from here to that wall on the assistant,
but you know, after, after, so,
so after being up for so long, my legs get real weak because of your back.
Yeah. I.
Was my back. Is it something that's like cutting off the nerves or something?
Yeah, exactly. Winding off the nerves. Yeah.
And is there anything they can do about that?
Uh, I mean, you know,
maybe one day come out with something that'll help get us stronger.
I was thinking about trying to stem cell thing. Yeah.
I said that that should help a lot too right there.
So a bunch of places that they do it,
where they could do it with a lot stronger stem cells and they can do in
America, like the place in Columbia does it. And, um,
there's a place in Panama that I actually sent my mom. Yeah. My mom,
they wanted to give her a knee replacement and um, doctors just,
they want to operate right away. And I was like, Hm, let me, let me see. Yeah,
we can send you down to Panama.
Let me see if Dr. Reardon he'd been in here before with Mel Gibson and he was
talking about Mel Gibson's dad and Mel Gibson's dad was in real bad shape when
he was 92. And then now he's a hundred and he's fine. I mean,
just gone back there a bunch of times keeps going back for stem cells. Yeah.
Long story short, my mom was scheduled to get a knee replacement.
I sent her down to Panama and six months later it started to feel good.
Eight months later, no pain at all. Yeah. It, it really did a great,
and then I sent her down a second time. It's it's pretty amazing stuff.
What they can do.
Yeah. So that's, that's, that's my thing to do next. And uh,
people I've talked to, they, uh, think it will do me a lot of good. All good.
So is it there's scar tissue around the nerves?
That's pushing it's the nerves now.
Cause if all the disks are gone and everything's fused, what's irritating,
the nerves.
Scar tissue, uh, all that hardware.
I got 14 screws, two cages.
Uh, I got two rods, but this long in there too.
So it's a lot of hardware, a lot of cages. And uh,
what are the cages look like?
So it's a cage around your spine. Yeah. Yeah.
And what's the purpose of that?
I hold it this together. Keeping them in place. Yeah. That was the wild. They,
they, they don't want them to come, uh, loose,
but the cages around them keep them together. So you're like Robocop in there.
Yeah. Pretty much because I got that in my neck and back.
You have a cage in your neck? Yeah. You got an x-ray of any of this. Yeah.
I'm not sure. What is it? Is it online? Yeah.
I posted a couple of times online. Yeah.
On your Instagram page. Yeah. See if you can find any that Jamie that's crazy.
Yeah. You Liz laughing about it.
Like you're fine with it when you get used to it. That was the one.
But is it also that you look at like,
you're legitimate legend and so do you look at it like, Hey,
this is the price that I paid to be a legend.
Uh, I look at it like, Hey, I'm still alive.
And I still work out every day and I'm still normal. So I'm good.
Wow. That's a great.
Healthy attitude, man. You're obviously still huge.
And you're still very strong. Well.
Not as strong as I used to be. I'm not as big as I used to be either.
I'm only like two 50 now, you.
Know, when you say you're,
you're judging it on you being multiple time. Mr. Olympia.
That's not a regular person. I'm not as big as I used to be. Like,
you can't stay that big possible.
No, no, no way. No way. No. How many like that? No more. Right?
I bet it's not ideal to eat when you want me to eat half the food I used to eat.
I can only imagine. Now I only, I used to eat six. I only eat three.
Now that's a normal person. Yeah. You got anything, Jamie?
Oh, that's going to be hard to find.
Oh my God. That's crazy. That's what a cage looks like.
Yeah.
Wow. All that, that stuff's heavy duty.
The size of those screws in that picture. On the left.
Yeah. They're about three inches long.
Two to three inches long. Yeah. And they got screws on the end of them.
Boats on the end of you,
you can see on the end right here on that one on the last,
those are boats right there. So no, the big screws in between there too.
Wow. Yeah, that goes all the.
Way up. All the way up your whole back. Yeah. So there's no neck.
To my neck. My neck is the same way. Wow.
For 3, 4, 5, and six.
And so in doing this, they've saved your back,
but they've all the hardware's what's fun. Come with your nerves. Yeah. Yeah.
All.
The hardware. Yeah. It's pinching on the nerves causing pain and.
Stuff. What does the doctor say about that stuff?
I ain't nothing they can do about that. It's just going to be like that.
They said they can take your screws up maybe one day, but it's, it's a,
it's a major surgery. They do that. Yeah. You know,
they got to cut me from all the way,
top to bottom and take all those out.
It's 14 of them that started from the top all the way down to the.
Bar. Would that be possible that if they did that,
it would alleviate some of the pins.
Yeah. Yeah, sure. Have you thought about it? Yeah.
I just went to the doctor and talked to him about it last week. Oh yeah.
What he say? He say, I got another herniated disc. Oh boy.
And they need to fix that for you think about taking them.
Where's the one that's herniated. The new one is hurting. It's up top.
See all the ones, the lower ones are already fused. Just the one on the,
on the top is the one that's herniated. Now.
That was a bulging or is it herniated?
Uh, he said herniated. So.
Pushing out,
I had a bulging disc that I had fixed with something called Regena Keene.
Have you ever heard of Regena keen? No.
They invented it down in Germany and uh, a lot of, uh, athletes,
like Coby Bryant and paint and Manny, they all went to Germany.
It's a blood spinning procedure. Have you heard of it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
They do it in America. Now they have an office in Dallas.
They have an office in Santa Monica and I went to the one in Santa Monica and
um, they, they take your out, they spin it and they apply some medication to it.
And then it becomes this yellow serum. And then they inject the,
the yellow serum directly into the area where the disc is and it alleviates all
the inflammation and the disc slowly goes back into place for me within
two weeks, I had extreme relief within two weeks.
And then now there's no, no bulging disc at all.
I went back after I did the full round of treatments, which I think was for,
I remember correctly, five or six different treatments. I went back.
I got a new MRI and there's no bulge anymore.
Yeah. That's sort of like what they do when they do a PRP.
Yes. It is like, PRP is just more advanced.
It's just another level of PRP injection thing. Did you do the PRP? Yeah,
I did all that. Did that help your neck at all? No, I didn't do anything for me.
It did in my neck and back actually. Well, I would,
I would wonder what would help you like stem cells and
screws out? Pretty much.
The only thing that's going to help me. I think.
So all this stuff with your legs though,
that wasn't the case before the screws and before all the no, no, no. Yeah.
I would imagine that's what's going on, man. It's all fused up, right?
It doesn't have to be screwed in.
No, no. Uh,
that's why I went to the doctor because they said after about a couple of years,
everything would be fused up Korea fused up and I can take the screws out.
Where does the doctor want to operate in your neck as well?
No, he just fixed my neck a year ago. But the new bolt. Yeah.
This is a new bulge in my back now. Oh, it's in your back? Yeah, this is my bag.
Yeah. That's why
that was the result of a cat scan I had done, uh, last week.
Tam dude, you.
You're at a hospital like every couple of weeks. It's.
Not seem like it though. But uh, I,
I was just wanting to get the screws out cause um, you know,
it's been a long time and it's still in pain. And like I said,
it's still pinching me to got, you know, nerves being pinched. And I think,
you know, my legs are numb to my foot. Totally. No. Yeah.
And I, I was thinking maybe if I took the screw though,
I get some of this numbness to go away. Yeah. You know,
I get some strength back also. Do you think you're going to wind up doing that?
If possible one day I would like to man, I'm hoping.
Someone hears this. That's a specialist that has a solution for you.
How many different doctors have you seen?
Uh, right now just one. Just the one doctor. Just the one.
Hmm. Is a local guy near you. Yeah. Yeah. Local guy
in Fort worth, Texas. Also my first surgery,
my non, uh, probably like my fourth or fifth one.
They operated on me for about 13 hours.
They cut me in the front, turn me on the side, cut me on the,
and then they put me on my back and cut me on my back. Jeez.
And, uh, that gave me a lot of problems that started the, uh,
immobility thing right there. What was it? I was good until I did that surgery.
What kind of surgery was that as another fusion? Yeah.
Why did they have to cut you in so many places?
Cause they had to fuse so many deaths. Ugh.
Put in so many screws and uh,
that was in 15, I think. Wow. At 16,
decent 15. I remember getting off the plane in Russia and Russia. Yeah.
You got that done in Russia? No, no.
I remember getting off the plane in Russia and I'm like, man, my back is hurting
and I was walking fine to the hotel the next day.
Uh, my mobility got worse and the day after I was on
crutches and I've been on, on everything. It's just so out of nowhere.
I don't know where and how far.
Out from the surgery was? This?
The surgery was like the next month. Oh, so this was before the surgery?
Yeah, this was before. Yeah. Okay.
So then they cut you open the front and the side,
the back and then everything's downhill from there.
Yeah. Yeah. Everything went down here from there, man.
I'm really hoping that somebody listens to this and some doctor hears about
this. Well, one thing is you're in Fort worth. Dr. Reardon is actually,
his office is in Dallas. So that's pretty close to you. It's really close to me.
I'd love to connect you to him and see if there's anything that he could do.
Yeah. That would be nice because I'm.
Always looking to get better. Cause this,
these crutches getting on my nerves,
I can only imagine five years now. And.
A guy who was a, the level of athlete that you were when you.
Were in that crime and how old are you.
Now? I just turned 56, 2 weeks ago. Well, you look great.
Well, I'm still working out every day and uh, eating good.
Yeah. It would be nice if they could do something to, I like.
To get her in this background. I like to get my strength.
Back. Yeah. I guaranteed. Dr. Reardon could probably help. Yeah.
I don't want to guarantee, but he's, he's a real expert in, you know, uh,
stem cells and the benefits of stem cells. Or maybe I'd give him a call. Yeah.
I'll connect you to, for sure.